well the Israeli military says it
carried out a ground raid on Hamas
targets inside Northern Gaza during the
night this footage is from the Israeli
military The Raid comes ahead of what's
expected to be a larger ground Invasion
Benny gance a retired army General and
member of Israel's war cabinet says if a
grand defense have happened it would be
part of a process that would take years
Teresa is life for us in ashot in
southern Israel um too first of all what
are the Israelis saying that they've
been trying to achieve with these raes
into Northern
Gaza well what we've been seeing in the
past weeks are troops and soldiers and
armor vehicles all moving towards is
area towards the border with gas in
order to launch a ground Invasion but
that ground Invasion apparently has been
delayed for a while and what we've been
seeing are raids going into Gaza we saw
one a few days ago where soldiers
entered uh Northern Gaza there was a
fight Ono there and one Israeli soldier
was killed and what happened was on
Wednesday is that tanks went into Gaza
apparently targeting anti-tank launchers
infrastructure and also securing the
area of Northern gasa that's apparently
being used by Palestinian f fighters to
launch rockets attacks against Israel in
fact just in the past few days we've
been seeing an increase of barrage uh of
rockets being launched towards this way
just 5 minutes ago Sirens were on people
were running toward Ward the shelters
because several Rockets have been
launched some of them have caused some
damage in central Israel people have
been injured so definitely uh that's one
of the priorities tackling that
immediately what we've been seeing you
know since the October 7th attack
happened is that initially the Israeli
government was saying that they're going
to go after Hamas terminate with the
organization but also with the political
structure and now they're being more
realistic they're saying that this is
going to take time that this is going to
be a long war that people need to be
patient and that's what Benny Gans was
referring to in a way warning the
population that Urban Warfare if and
when the Israeli army goes into Gaza
it's going to be extremely difficult and
what he's also telling the population
many of those who have been evacuated
from all around this area thousands of
people evacuated from this area because
of the risk of an ongoing uh rocket
attacks but also the possibility of a
ground Invasion they've been told that
it could be months before they're able
to return home Teresa I understand that
they've also been talking about the
captives that have been held by
Hamas well it's now been confirmed that
the Israeli government is saying that
224 people being held captive in Gaza
and there's been lots of tension
initially with some of the relatives of
those who are being held in Gaza people
are extremely afraid about what they're
seeing is happening in Gaza right now
massive air strikes we're hearing in
right now the artillery F being used to
attack Northern gas of course they have
their relatives there they would like
the government to continue negotiating
so that those relatives uh can be
released the other thing is earlier
today there was a protest outside the
ministry of Defense in uh Tel Aviv where
a dozens of people gathered there with
holding the pictures of their loved ones
asking the government to do much more
they want to see more negotiations and
the other thing they're saying is that
they have buried enough people and
that's why they want the government to
do much more so their loved ones are
released Teresa thank you very much
indeed Teresa B talking to us from ashad
in southern Israel